README.md, before:

# GraphSense Dashboard

A web dashboard for interactive cryptocurrency analysis.

## Configuration

Configure plugins and custom themes in `config/Config.elm`. Use `config/Config.elm.tmp` as a template: `cp config/Config.elm.tmp config/Config.elm`

## Install plugins

1. Place plugins in the `plugins` folder.
2. Run `node generate.js` ([NodeJS][nodejs] needs to be installed)
3. Configure the plugin in `config/Config.elm`, eg:

```elm

plugins : Plugin.Plugins
plugins =
    Plugin.empty
    > Plugin.myplugin (Myplugin.plugin {- plugin specific arguments here -})
```

## Development setup

You need to have [NodeJS][nodejs] installed. It comes with [NPM][npm],
the package manager for JavaScript.

In order to install all dependencies, run the following from the root of
this repository:

    npm install

Then start the [vite](https://vitejs.dev) development server:

    npm run dev

Point your browser to `localhost:3000`.

## Develop plugins

Use `plugin_stub` as a starting point: `cp -r plugin_stub plugins/myplugin`

The name of the plugin is case insensitive. Elm package name of the plugin is the plugin name with the first letter capitalized, eg. `Myplugin`.

Adapt the stub accordingly. 

## Production setup

### Prerequisites

Install Docker and Docker Compose:

- [Docker][docker], see e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Docker Compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/

### Configuration

Copy `docker/env.template` to `.env`:

    cp docker/env.template .env

Edit the file `.env` and set the URL of the [graphsense-REST][graphsense-rest]
service, e.g.:

    REST_URL="https://example.com:9000"

### Usage

Build the Docker image:

    docker-compose build

Start a container (in detached mode):

    docker-compose up -d

Finally, test the application in a web browser:

    http://localhost:8000

## Color configuration

You can map tag concepts to colors in `./config/conceptsColors.yaml`.
The file itself contains hints on the format.

This file is deployed as is. You can easily replace it at runtime in the
deployed directory.

[nodejs]: https://nodejs.org
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com
[graphsense-rest]: https://github.com/graphsense/graphsense-rest
[docker]: https://www.docker.com

Commit message:

improve documentation of plugin development and hooks

README.md, after:

# GraphSense Dashboard

A web dashboard for interactive cryptocurrency analysis.

## Configuration

Configure plugins and custom themes in `config/Config.elm`. Use `config/Config.elm.tmp` as a template: `cp config/Config.elm.tmp config/Config.elm`

## Install plugins

1. Place plugins in the `plugins` folder.
2. Run `node generate.js` ([NodeJS][nodejs] needs to be installed)
3. Run `elm install` for each package named in the plugin's `dependencies.txt`.
3. Configure the plugin in `config/Config.elm`, eg:

```elm

plugins : Plugin.Plugins
plugins =
    Plugin.empty
    |> Plugin.myplugin (Myplugin.plugin {- plugin specific arguments here -})
```

## Development setup

You need to have [NodeJS][nodejs] installed. It comes with [NPM][npm],
the package manager for JavaScript.

In order to install all dependencies, run the following from the root of
this repository:

    npm install

Then start the [vite](https://vitejs.dev) development server:

    npm run dev

Point your browser to `localhost:3000`.

## Develop plugins

### Bootstrapping

Use `plugin_stub` as a starting point: `cp -r plugin_stub plugins/myplugin`

The name of the plugin is case insensitive. Elm package name of the plugin is the plugin name with the first letter capitalized, eg. `Myplugin`.

Adapt the stub accordingly:
* rename `./Stub`, `./Stub.elm` and `stub.js` to your plugin's name. Keep the respective capitalization. 
* replace `Stub` in the stub Elm files with your plugin's Elm package.

Place plugin specific dependencies in plugin's `./dependencies.txt`.

### Development

Plugins can hook into the dashboard functionality in order to extend it.

Plugin's hook implementations need to be set in your plugin's root module which was derived from `./Stub.elm`.
Please see the comments in the respective files of `./src/PluginInterface` for detailed documentation.

## Production setup

### Prerequisites

Install Docker and Docker Compose:

- [Docker][docker], see e.g. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
- Docker Compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/

### Configuration

Copy `docker/env.template` to `.env`:

    cp docker/env.template .env

Edit the file `.env` and set the URL of the [graphsense-REST][graphsense-rest]
service, e.g.:

    REST_URL="https://example.com:9000"

### Usage

Build the Docker image:

    docker-compose build

Start a container (in detached mode):

    docker-compose up -d

Finally, test the application in a web browser:

    http://localhost:8000

## Color configuration

You can map tag concepts to colors in `./config/conceptsColors.yaml`.
The file itself contains hints on the format.

This file is deployed as is. You can easily replace it at runtime in the
deployed directory.

[nodejs]: https://nodejs.org
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com
[graphsense-rest]: https://github.com/graphsense/graphsense-rest
[docker]: https://www.docker.com
